So now we're just going to finish
up with this last section and
get into some really important
topics about Next.js.
And you'll be a certified Next.js
developer, if that's a thing.
If it was, you would be one.
So let's go in and talk about
working with server side rendering
cuz I think this is always a big topic.
And I think a lot of people
who aren't used to working
with server side rendering in general
always have some of the same questions.
Specifically, one of the biggest gotchas,
obviously people run into
with server side rendering is that
either they created some component or
they installed some component that's
using browser specific things, DOM APIs.
And when they try to render it on
the server, they get an error, right?
Because it's like document not defined,
window not defined,
like all this stuff and it always just
seems to come back and bite them.
And I was guilty,
I fall into that trap a lot when I
was doing server side
rendering in the early days.
So I just kind want to talk about that and
how Next.js gives you some tools to help
you with that so
you don't have to do it yourself.
Okay, so
we're doing server side rendering.
Like I said, sometimes you just really
need to skip rendering some components
sometimes for many different reasons.
Here are a few.
One, does that component have some
DOM API, window, navigator, GPS,
I don't know, is using literally
the DOM API to do something?
The data that it needs only
comes from the client side,
like it comes from some client side
API call or something like that.
And you're not handling the errors,
you don't have any default so
either the data is there or it's not.
So it'll just break on the server
side if there's no data.
And then for something else.
I don't know, maybe you literally just
don't want to render this thing on
a server for whatever reason,
you have your reasons.
So if that's the case,
Next.js gives us something that
actually works very well for this.
And it's not something that they created,
they just supported and extended it.
And that's gonna be called
the dynamic imports.
So if you've never seen or
heard of dynamic imports,
it's something new to the spec.
You can get this in Webpack.
You can get this with combination of
Webpack, Babel, things like that, and
I'm pretty sure it's coming
to the browsers eventually.
If it's not there already, I'm not keeping
up with a browser spec so I don't know.
But basically it allows you to do
a dynamic import of a component.
In this case, they're importing, or I,
I'm importing an add component here.
So the way that it works is you
can pass an import statement,
but this time it actually
looks like a function.
So you import a function and
then you put a path.
Now whatever the default is for
this module is going to be
returned when this gets resolved.
And then as an extension,
you can do ssr false,
which means don't server
render this thing.
So dynamic components basically
just don't get rendered,
they don't get built, they don't
get bundled until they're accessed.
So if you had this sponsored ad and
you put it here like I did,
this won't get injected and
bundled, right?
Basically this component is going to be
built by its own, it's gonna have its own
file instead of being bundled in
with all the other components.
It's gonna be treated like its own file,
kinda like a route would, a page.
A page has its own file and
that's kinda how they're their own apps.
By doing this dynamic import, you're
basically making this component its own
file, and you're dynamically
importing it when you need it.
And if you know how JSX works, whenever
you render a JSX component like this,
what this boils down to is you
actually calling a function.
You're actually invoking this function and
any prop that you pass on to it are going
to be parameters to that function.
So if this compiled down to JavaScript,
you're actually calling one, two, three,
four, you're calling four functions here.
So when this function gets called,
then it renders that component.
It's very dynamic in that case, and
then that's where it gets fetched.
So if you go open the network tab,
you might actually see this component
being fetched when it gets rendered.
Because that's when it was used and
that's when it was called.
So that's a dynamic import.
And by putting ssr false,
we can skip out on having something
being rendered on the server.
So for instance, if we have a component
like, let's just make something right
quick inside of the index, or
actually I'll go to components.
And I'll make a new file here and
I'll call it, I don't know,
browser.tsx so we'll have something here.
We'll import React from react, like that.
And we'll say exports default and
we'll put a component in here,
And actually,
I'll just put something simple,
Browser component like that, right?
So we got a browser component but
then maybe let's
say we did some window.Thing up here,
right?
We did some window stuff on here so
what's something that I can
do on window right quick?
Actually, I'll just log the window,
just console.log or even better,
document.query or
document.body, there we go.
That's a good one, so we can do that.
The document.body and if I were to
import this into a page which is rendered
on a server, so let me go to a page.
Let's go to the index page here and
I just say import the Browser component,
src/components/browser, like that, right?
And I'm just going to import that file and
if Next.js doesn't polyfill document,
which they probably do, they might just
pollyfill it and just null that so
it might still work.
But if they don't, this would break, so.
Yeah, it looks like they
might polyfill it, let's see.
Yeah, so I think we're good there.
But if I did something super
browser related in here,
I can't think of a good example right now
without making a complicated component.
But anyway, if I wanted to skip this
from being rendered on the server for
whatever reason, then what I can do
is just go into that index page.
And instead of importing
the browser like that,
I can say,
import dynamic from next/dynamic.
And then what I can do is say,
BrowserComponent = dynamic, like that.
And then that takes a function
which returns a promise, and
the imports function
does return a promise.
So I can say src/components,
brower, [LAUGH] should be browser.
Okay, so I'll do that.
And then I could render that component,
right?
So I could say, wait,
let me add a ssr false.
There we go, and then I can add
the browser component BrowerComponent.
And boom, it shows up here.
Everything's good to go but
it didn't render on the server.
And the way that you could check that out
is if you were to inspect the output,
right, the actual HTML,
so oops, so if I go,
Here, and it's probably gonna look like
mush, I don't know why I'm looking at it.
But if I go to Doc, or actually,
I think you could just
look at the source, yeah,
that might be better.
Okay, yeah, it was not showing up there,
but if I look for
This is my really nice app,
I'm pretty sure that will show up.
There we go, so
this is my really nice app but
what you won't see is BrowserComponent.
Right, that's not there, cuz that
didn't get rendered on the server so
it's not there,
it's injected at execution time.
So that's how you can skip server side
rendering, which is a really good thing,
specifically working with third party
libraries that use browser specific stuff
inside of something like Next.js.
>> Can you put a fallback UI
like React.lazy works for
while the dynamic component
is loading client side.
>> Yeah,
you can put a fallback UI inside of here.
I want to say that it takes
a fallback prop here.
Actually, I've never used it so I guess
we can find out together right now.
I'll give you the wrong information so
let's see, next.js/dynamic.
Component, if I can spell.
Or loading, there we go,
custom loading, yeah, so it's loading.
You put loading and
you can put a component.
>> Awesome, thank you
>> Yeah.